---
title: 'Getting started'
description: 'Get up and running with Shuriken UI in minutes'
layout: 'default'
---

# Getting started

Install Shuriken UI and start building your project in minutes.

## Installation

Getting up and running is quick and easy.

### 1. Install Shuriken UI

Install the package from your command line.

::code-group

```shell [pnpm]
pnpm i @shuriken-ui/react
```

```shell [npm]
npm install @shuriken-ui/react
```

```shell [yarn]
yarn add @shuriken-ui/react
```

::

::info-block{icon='akar-icons:react-fill'}
This also installs the `@shuriken-ui/tailwind` package and nothing else more. Unlike with the Nuxt package, `@shuriken-ui/react` doesn't need any other dependencies and handles everything internally. This goes without saying that you will need a running React or Next.js app to use it.
#title
Important note
::

### 2. Setup the Shuriken UI provider

`@shuriken-ui/react` is built using the provider pattern. This means that you need to wrap your application or your layouts with the `ShurikenProvider` component to make it work. For the sake of the example, let's go with the layout approach using Next.js. Create a`layout.tsx` file in the `layouts` folder of your Next.js app and import the `ShurikenUIProvider` component:

::code-group

```tsx [layout.tsx]
import React from "react";
import { ShurikenUIProvider } from "@shuriken-ui/react";

export default function Layout({ children, }: { children: React.ReactNode }) {
  return (
    <ShurikenUIProvider>
      <div>
          {children}
      </div>
    </ShurikenUIProvider>
  );
}
```

::

You can then use Shuriken UI components in your pages that use that layout:

::code-group

```tsx [page.tsx]
import React from "react";
import { BaseButton } from "@shuriken-ui/react";
import { Layout } from "@/layouts/layout";

export default function Page() {
  return (
    <Layout>
      <div>
          <BaseButton>Iam a Shuriken UI button</BaseButton>
      </div>
    </Layout>
  );
}
```

::

### 3. Add the Tailwind config

If it does not exist already, create a `tailwind.config.ts` file at the root of your application, and add the minimal required configuration for Shuriken UI.

::code-group

```ts [tailwind.config.ts]
import { withShurikenUI } from '@shuriken-ui/tailwind'
import colors from 'tailwindcss/colors'

export default withShurikenUI({
  content: [],
  theme: {
    extend: {
      /**
       * Customize Shuriken UI components
       *
       * @see https://github.com/shuriken-ui/tailwind
       */
      nui: {
        // ...
      },
    },
  },
})
```

::

### 4. Add an optional Provider config

You set some default for your Shuriken UI components by creating an `provider.config.ts` file at the root of your application.

::info-block{icon='mingcute:bulb-fill'}
This feature is not tested yet and might not work as expected. We are still exploring and experimenting different options, making it a bit hard to document. We will update this section as soon as we have a stable solution.
#title
Important note
::

::code-group

```ts [provider.config.ts]
export default providerConfig({
  nui: {
    /**
     * Default props for components
     *
     * This allows to not have to specify default props on every component.
     * Define only the ones you want to override.
     */
  },
})
```

::

## Take it further

Get the most out of Shuriken UI by exploring more concepts and features.

::link-box-grid
:::link-box{to ="/docs/react/theming"}
Learn how theming works in Shuriken UI and get a grasp on the basic concepts.
#title
Theme Overview
:::
:::link-box{to ="/docs/react/theming/colors"}
Learn how to setup your branding color, your gray shade and additional support colors.
#title
Theme Colors
:::
:::link-box{to ="/docs/react/theming/dark-mode"}
Learn more about Shuriken UI's native dark mode and how components are built around it
#title
Dark Mode
:::
:::link-box{to ="/docs/react/theming/visual-style"}
Learn more about Shuriken UI components key concepts and how to customize them.
#title
Visual Style
:::
:::link-box{to ="/docs/react/theming/typography"}
Explore the typography system and how to customize it, including fonts, sizes etc...
#title
Typography
:::
:::link-box{to ="/docs/react/theming/breakpoints"}
Learn how Shuriken Ui behaves in responsive viewports and how to customize it.
#title
Breakpoints
:::
::