---
title: 'Design Principles'
description: 'About the design principles of Shuriken UI.'
layout: 'default'
---

# Design Principles

Let's talk about the design principles of Shuriken UI.

## Exhaustivity

Shuriken UI components are thought to be exhaustive in terms of functionality, covering a broad spectrum of potential use cases and scenarios. An exhaustive UI library anticipates the diverse needs of developers and designers, providing a comprehensive set of components that can be easily customized to meet specific requirements. This inclusiveness not only caters to common use cases but also accommodates edge cases and unique design challenges. 

By offering a wide range of components, developers can find solutions for various interface elements, ensuring a consistent and coherent user experience across different parts of an application. An exhaustive UI library is a powerful resource that minimizes the need for custom, one-off solutions, promoting a more standardized and efficient development process. Additionally, it empowers designers and developers to focus on creativity and innovation rather than spending excessive time reinventing the wheel, ultimately leading to more robust and feature-rich digital interfaces.

## Consistency

Consistency is the most important thing in design. It is the key to a good user experience. It is the difference between a good design and a bad design. It is the difference between a good product and a bad product.

In Shuriken UI, we made sure that components remain consistent when used together. For example, all components share common properties, like `border-radius`, `size`, and `color`. This makes it easy to use them together, by creating a coherent design system.

## Adaptablity

Branding is important. It is the first thing that people see when they visit your website or your app. Shuriken UI provides an easy way of branding your application by setting a few variables. 

One of them is the `primary` color variable, which is used to reflect the main theme color on all components.

Shuriken UI also gives you the ability to control the main gray shade of your application by using the `muted` color abstraction. This will help you to create a consistent look and feel across your application. This is especially useful when you want to create a dark theme for your application.

For more details about branding your application, check out the [colors](/docs/guide/theming/colors) section of the guide.

## Accessibility

Accessibility in a UI (User Interface) library is of paramount importance as it ensures that digital products are usable by a diverse range of individuals, including those with disabilities. An accessible UI library goes beyond mere aesthetics and functionality, striving to create an inclusive user experience for everyone, regardless of their physical or cognitive abilities. 

By incorporating features such as proper semantic markup, keyboard navigation support, and compatibility with assistive technologies, Shuriken UI ensures that individuals with visual, auditory, motor, or cognitive impairments can seamlessly interact with and navigate through digital interfaces. This not only aligns with ethical and legal standards promoting equal access but also expands the potential user base, enhancing the reach and impact of software applications. 

Prioritizing accessibility in a UI library is not just a design choice; it is a commitment to fostering digital environments that prioritize diversity, equity, and inclusivity.

## Reusability

Designing UI library components with reusability in mind is essential for creating efficient and maintainable user interfaces. When components are crafted with a modular and flexible approach, they become building blocks that can be easily adapted and reused across different parts of an application or even in entirely separate projects. 

Reusable UI components offer several advantages, such as consistency in design and behavior, reduced development time, and simplified maintenance. Developers can save time and effort by leveraging pre-built components, promoting a more efficient and scalable development process. Furthermore, consistent use of reusable components enhances the overall user experience by ensuring a cohesive and harmonious design throughout the application. 

By fostering a mindset of reusability during the design and implementation of Shuriken UI, we made sure that developers can create a foundation that not only streamlines development workflows but also contributes to a more cohesive and user-friendly digital ecosystem.