---
title: 'Introduction'
description: 'Shuriken UI for Tailwind'
layout: 'default'
tabs.icon: 'simple-icons:tailwindcss'
tabs.title: 'Tailwind'
---

# Introduction

Shuriken UI is a customizable component library for Tailwind, Nuxt and React/Next.js made and maintained by [cssninja.io](https://cssninja.io).

## Shuriken UI

`@shuriken-ui/tailwind` is the main part of the [Shuriken UI](https://github.com/shuriken-ui) project by [cssninja.io](https://cssninja.io). Its main goal is to provide a set of Tailwind CSS components, to be framework agnostic and highly customizable. 

::info-block{icon='simple-icons:tailwindcss'}
`@shuriken-ui/tailwind` is a required dependency for all other Shuriken UI packages, e.g `@shuriken-ui/nuxt` and `@shuriken-ui/react`.
#title
Dependency
::

This package provide a [Tailwind CSS preset](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/presets) which contains all the components and utilities. It also extends the default theme with some branding and support colors, as well as fonts.

All components live in their own [Tailwind CSS plugin](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/plugins) and can be configured in the `tailwind.config.ts` file, making it easy to customize each one of the available components.

Shuriken UI is at the same time a design system and a component library. It delivers incredible sets of reusable UI built on top of [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com). Tailwind CSS is a utility first framework that differs from traditional CSS libraries like Bootstrap or Bulma for instance. While those use semantic classes to name and style components they provide, Tailwind takes a completely different approach.

Tailwind generates utility classes. In more simple terms, that means that Tailwind provides very low level CSS classes that you can use like bricks / dominos, and stack them one on top of each other to build a consistent layout. That makes everything a lot easier when it comes to designing UI and UX.

::info-block{icon='mingcute:bulb-fill'}
`@shuriken-ui/tailwind` is a collection of Tailwind CSS plugins that can be loaded into your Tailwind based application codebase. It works like a plugin that you can inject into your `tailwind.config.js` configuration file. Learn more about how Tailwind CSS plugins work by checking the related section of their [documentation](https://tailwindcss.com/docs/plugins).
#title
Important note
::

## What is Tailwind CSS?

Tailwind CSS is a utility-first CSS framework for rapidly building custom user interfaces.

### Tailwind overview

Now you might be wondering why use Tailwind over other CSS frameworks? Tailwind CSS is a low-level framework. Meaning, unlike other CSS frameworks like Bootstrap, Bulma or Materialize, Tailwind doesn’t offer fully styled components like buttons, dropdowns, and navbars. Instead, it offers utility classes so you can create your own reusable components.

For that reason, it provides a lot more flexibility and control over what your application looks like than other CSS frameworks. This can enable you to create a more unique design.

### Benefits of Tailwind CSS

There are many benefits of using a CSS framework like Tailwind. Below are the major ones.

* **You write less custom CSS**. With Tailwind, you style elements by applying pre-existing classes directly in your HTML. By using utility classes in this way, you can build custom designs without writing CSS.
* **You keep CSS files small**. Without a framework like Tailwind, you have to keep writing CSS as you add new features and components. ASa result, your CSS files continue to grow and get heavier. By using utilities like Tailwind’s flexbox and padding utilities, most styles are reusable so you rarely need to write new CSS.
* **You don’t have to invent class names**. When Tailwind, you’re choosing classes from a pre-defined design system. That means you don’t need to agonize over picking the “perfect” class names for certain styles and components, or remember complicated ones like sidebar-inner-wrapper.
* **You can make safer changes**. With the traditional approach, if you make changes to CSS, you may break something across your site. Unlike CSS, utility classes in your HTML are local. That means you can change them without worrying about breaking something else on your site.

## Initial concepts

The atomic nature of Tailwind CSS led us on a path where we started thinking a lot about how we create concepts and sketches from a sample idea. With Tailwind CSS, you don't have (but you can if you still want to) to write any CSS. You can compose and design your UI directly inside your HTML markup, using the built-in (and custom as well) classes that Tailwind CSS ships with.

We have been working on Shuriken UI for almost two years and a half. Before reaching a satisfying state, we went through several conception and development cycles.

### The plain approach

We started with the good old plain approach, using Tailwind CSS classes directly in our HTML markup. That was a good start, but we quickly realized that we were repeating ourselves a lot. We were also using a lot of custom classes, which is not a bad thing, but we wanted to keep our codebase as clean as possible.

### The component approach

So at that given time, `@shuriken-ui/tailwind` didn't exist yet. We were trying to build our first Nuxt version of Shuriken UI, using utility classes directly in our `.vue` components. We ended up with things like this:

::code-group{expandable}

```vue [template]
<template>
  <button 
    class="relative font-sans font-normal inline-flex gap-x-1 
    items-center justify-center outline-none no-underline
    leading-5 rounded-xl transition-colors duration-300"
    :class=[
      props.size === 'xs' && 'h-8 px-3 py-1 text-sm',
      props.size === 'sm' && 'h-10 px-4 py-2 text-sm',
      props.size === 'md' && 'h-12 px-5 py-3 text-base',
      props.size === 'lg' && 'h-14 px-10 py-4 text-base',
      props.color === 'default' && 'text-muted-700 bg-white border dark:text-white  dark:bg-muted-700 dark:border-muted-600 hover:bg-muted-50  dark:hover:bg-muted-600',
      props.color === 'primary' && 'text-white bg-violet-500 hover:bg-violet-600',
      props.accessible ? 'focus-visible:outline-dashed focus-visible:outline-muted-300 dark:focus-visible:outline-muted-600 focus-visible:outline-offset-2' : ''
    ]
  >
      <slot></slot>
  </button>
</template>
```

```ts [script]
<script setup lang="ts">
  export type ButtonSize = 'xs' | 'sm' | 'md' | 'lg'
  export type ButtonColor = 'default' | 'primary'

  export interface ButtonProps {
    size?: ButtonSize
    color?: ButtonColor
    accessible: boolean
  }

  const props = withDefaults(defineProps<ButtonProps>({
    size: md,
    color: default
  }))
</script>
```
::

The result ended up being not legible in terms of developer experience, and hard to maintain. This was going to grow even more harder to maintain as we were already planning to make a `react` version of Shuriken UI.

### The plugin approach

After scratching our heads for a while, we came up with the idea of creating a Tailwind CSS plugin that would allow us to use the same components across different frameworks, while keeping the same Tailwind CSS classes. This is how `@shuriken-ui/tailwind` was born. Components would be identified by real life class names, like `.button` or `.input`.


### A unique source of truth

After making sure that this approach was viable, we decided to implement additional features that would make this package a unique source of truth, and a clean starting base when looking to implement javascript components in today's most popular frameworks, like `Nuxt`, `React` and `Next.js`. Therefore, we came up with a pretty unique file structure that would give valuable information on the component. Each component is defined in its own folder, and is composed of the following files:

* `index.ts`: the component CSS definition, using a combination of Tailwind CSS classes and custom CSS classes.
* `component.types.ts`: the component typescript definition, including the component props, events and slots.
* `component.variants.ts`: the component variants definition, including the component variants, and their respective CSS classes.
* `component.component.ts`: the component javascript definition written using [Lit-html](https://lit.dev/docs/libraries/standalone-templates/), including the component logic, and the component template.
* `component.config.ts`: the component configuration, including the component default styles, for each one of its parts and its variants.
* `component.stories.ts`: the component storybook definition, including the component stories, and its variants.
* `component.docs.mdx`: the component documentation, including the component description, examples, and more.
* `component.test.ts`: the component test file, including the component unit tests.

::info-block{icon='simple-icons:tailwindcss'}
You should be familiar with Tailwind CSS and its concepts before using Shuriken UI. If not, you should go through the Tailwind CSS [documentation](https://tailwindcss.com) and make some experiments in the Tailwind CSS official [playground](https://play.tailwindcss.com/).
#title
Important note
::