---
title: 'Introduction'
description: 'Shuriken UI for React'
layout: 'default'
tabs.icon: 'akar-icons:react-fill'
tabs.title: 'React'
---

# Introduction

Shuriken UI is a customizable component library for Tailwind, Nuxt and React/Next.js made and maintained by [cssninja.io](https://cssninja.io).


::info-block{icon='akar-icons:react-fill'}
@shuriken-ui/react is in the last weeks of development. The package is not yet available on npm. We'll let you  know as soon as it is ready in a dedicated Newsletter. In the meantime, you can start getting familiar with the documentation for future reference. Keep in mind that the API might still be **incomplete**, **inaccurate** or **subject to change**, until the first stable release.
#title
Coming Soon
::

## Shuriken UI

`@shuriken-ui/react` is a free and open-source Tailwind CSS UI Kit. It is a collection of components and templates that you can use to build your next Tailwind CSS project.

Components in Shuriken UI React are built using the `@shuriken-ui/tailwind` package, which declares components (prefixed with `nui-*`) using the tailwind plugin system. This approach allows to use the same components with different frameworks, letting the Tailwind JIT engine to only process actually used styles.

Shuriken UI is a `React package` that provides everything you need to build a modern web app or admin application. All basic components are built with Tailwind CSS and powered by `React`, and compatible with `Next.js` as well. Shuriken UI is actively developed and maintained by [cssninja.io](https://cssninja.io).

::info-block{icon='mingcute:bulb-fill'}
`@shuriken-ui/react` is dependent on `@shuriken-ui/tailwind`. Once installed you can easily add it to your app as a provider, using the `ShurikenUIProvider` component.
#title
Important note
::

## What is React?

React is a JavaScript library for building user interfaces. It is maintained by Facebook and a community of individual developers and companies. React can be used as a base in the development of single-page or mobile applications. It is actually one of the most popular JavaScript libraries for building user interfaces.

### About Next.js

Next.js is a React framework that enables several features for React apps out of the box, including server-side rendering, automatic code splitting, static exporting, and more. It is a great choice for building static websites and server-side rendered apps. By using `polymorphic` components, Shuriken UI React is compatible with Next.js as well.

### Supported providers

React and Next.js have an out-of-the-box support for a high number of pre configured providers, including Edge Worker, among the most popular ones:

::link-box-grid
:::link-box{to ="https://nitro.unjs.io/deploy/providers/cloudflare" icon="logos:cloudflare-workers-icon"}
Learn how to setup and configure a cloudflare worker for your app.
#title
Cloudflare Workers
:::
:::link-box{to ="https://nitro.unjs.io/deploy/providers/vercel" icon="logos:vercel-icon"}
Learn how to setup and configure Vercel deployments for your app.
#title
Vercel
:::
:::link-box{to ="https://nitro.unjs.io/deploy/providers/netlify" icon="logos:netlify-icon"}
Learn how to setup and configure Netlify deployments for your app.
#title
Netlify
:::
:::link-box{to ="https://nitro.unjs.io/deploy/providers/firebase" icon="logos:firebase"}
Learn how to setup and configure Firebase deployments for your app.
#title
Firebase
:::
::

## The provider pattern

Shuriken UI React is built using the provider pattern. This means that you need to wrap your app with the `ShurikenUIProvider` component, which provides the theme and the components to the rest of the app.

 React’s provider pattern is a powerful concept. React uses provider pattern in Context API to share data across the tree descendant nodes. You may not find this useful when you are using plain react. However, this pattern comes handy when you are designing a complex app since it solves multiple problems.  
 

## Useful resources

Get the most out of Shuriken UI by exploring more concepts and features.

::link-box-grid
:::link-box{to ="https://nuxt.com/"}
Learn more about React and how to use it to build your next application.
#title
React.dev
:::
:::link-box{to ="https://react.dev/learn/managing-state"}
Take a look at the React docs to learn more about state management.
#title
React State
:::
:::link-box{to ="https://nextjs.org/docs"}
Learn more about Next.js and how to use it to build your next react app.
#title
Next.js
:::
:::link-box{to ="https://tailwindcss.com/docs"}
Get familiar with Tailwind CSS and its powerful utility classes.
#title
Tailwind CSS
:::
::

