---
title: 'App config file'
description: 'The app config file allows you to customize the default properties of each component.'
layout: 'default'
---

# App config file

The app config file allows you to customize the default properties of each component

## Philosophy

Shuriken UI is a component library that aims to help you build applications faster. It is not a design system, but it is designed to help you build your own design system, with your own branding.

Every project, wether it is marketing oriented website or a full fledged web application, has a set of branding guidelines that need to be respected. These guidelines are usually defined by a designer, and are often expressed in the form of a design system. Shuriken UI integrates seamlessly with your branding.

### Design system

A design system is a collection of reusable components, guided by clear standards, that can be assembled together to build any number of applications. Shuriken UI is focused on helping you create your own design system, and then use it to build your applications.

### How it works

Shuriken UI offers a way to customize the default properties of each component. This allows you to stay consistent in your UI choices across your application, and to easily change the look and feel of your application by changing a few values.

### Example

For instance, you can change the default radius of all avatar components by changing a single value. Selecting and sticking to a specific radius for your avatars will help you stay consistent and build a coherent design system.

::code-group

```vue [ExampleAvatarDefaults.vue]
<template>
  <BaseAvatar src="/img/avatars/10.svg" />
</template>
```

#preview
:example-avatar-defaults
::

## Configuration

Before looking at a real example, let's talk real quick about how the configuration works, and how you can leverage it to customize the look anf feel of your application.

### Configuration file

Each component has a set of default properties that can be customized. To be able to customize default properties for a given component, you need to create an `app.config.ts` file in your project's root directory. This file should export a function that returns an object with the following structure:

::code-group

```ts [app.config.ts]
export default defineAppConfig({
  nui: {
    // Component overrides go here
  },
})
```

::

### Initial values

The `nui` object is the root of the configuration. It contains the initial values for each component. These values are used as the default values for each component. You can override these values to customize the look and feel of your application. Let's look at the `BaseButton` component initial values:

::code-group

```ts [app.config.ts]
export default defineAppConfig({
  nui: {
    BaseButton: {
      variant: 'solid',
      rounded: 'sm',
      color: 'default',
      size: 'md',
    },
  },
})
```

#preview
:example-button-initials
::

From what we have above, we can tell that the `BaseButton` component has 4 properties that can be customized: `variant`, `rounded`, `color` and `size`. 

### Customizing values

For the sake of the example, let's change the configuration to make the button smaller, rounder, and set to the primary color by default:

::code-group

```ts [app.config.ts]
export default defineAppConfig({
  nui: {
    BaseButton: {
      variant: 'solid',
      rounded: 'full',
      color: 'primary',
      size: 'sm',
    },
  },
})
```

#preview
:example-button-defaults
::

We can see in the example above that with just a few changes, we were able to change the look and feel of the button component. This is just a simple example, but you can imagine how powerful this can be when you have a lot of components to customize.

### Going further

Shuriken UI Nuxt allows you to stay consistent in your UI choices across your application, and to easily change the look and feel of your application by changing a few values. However, that might not be enough for you. 

You might want to go further and [customize component base styles](/docs/tailwind/theming/configuration). You can do that by using the configuration object of the [@shuriken-ui/tailwind](https://github.com/shuriken-ui/tailwind) package, which is a dependency of `@shuriken-ui/nuxt`.