---
title: 'Getting started'
description: 'Get up and running with Shuriken UI in minutes'
layout: 'default'
---

# Getting started

Install Shuriken UI and start building your project in minutes.

## Installation

Getting up and running is quick and easy.

### 1. Install Shuriken UI

Install the package from your command line.

::code-group

```shell [pnpm]
pnpm i @shuriken-ui/tailwind
```

```shell [npm]
npm install @shuriken-ui/tailwind
```

```shell [yarn]
yarn add @shuriken-ui/tailwind
```

::

::info-block{icon='simple-icons:tailwindcss'}
This will only install the `@shuriken-ui/tailwind` package and nothing else. You can either build an Html based project, or implement it by creating custom components in another type of project using a backend framework like `Laravel` or a frontend framework like `Angular` or `Svelte`.
#title
Important note
::

### 2. Add the Tailwind config

If it does not exist already, create a `tailwind.config.js` or a `tailwind.config.ts` file (if you are using Typescript) at the root of your application, and add the minimal required configuration for Shuriken UI.

#### Using the config

The simplest way to register Shuriken UI is to use the `withShurikenUI` helper function:

::code-group

```js [tailwind.config.js]
import { withShurikenUI } from '@shuriken-ui/tailwind'
import colors from 'tailwindcss/colors'

export default withShurikenUI({
  content: [],
  theme: {
    extend: {
      /**
       * Customize Shuriken UI components
       *
       * @see https://github.com/shuriken-ui/tailwind
       */
      shurikenUi: {
        // ...
      },
    },
  },
})
```

::

#### Using the preset

You can also direcly import the Shuriken UI `preset` and use it in your config:

::code-group

```js [tailwind.config.js]
import type { Config } from 'tailwindcss'
import preset from '@shuriken-ui/tailwind/preset'

export default {
  presets: [shurikenUIPreset],
  // your config goes here
} satisfies Config
```

::

### 3. Add optional component config

You set some default for your Shuriken UI plugins by populating the `shurikenUi` object of the `tailwind.config.js` file:

::code-group{expandable}

```js [tailwind.config.js]
import { withShurikenUI } from '@shuriken-ui/tailwind'
import colors from 'tailwindcss/colors'

export default withShurikenUI({
  content: [],
  theme: {
    extend: {
      shurikenUi: {
        //Customize the tooltip plugin
        tooltip: {
          font: {
            family: 'sans',
            color: {
              light: '[#fff]',
              dark: '[#fff]',
            },
          },
          background: {
            light: '[#1e293b]',
            dark: '[#ec4899]',
          },
          size: {
            width: {
              min: '3rem',
              max: '21rem',
            },
          },
        }
      },
    },
  },
})
```

::

## Take it further

Get the most out of Shuriken UI by exploring more concepts and features.

::link-box-grid
:::link-box{to ="/docs/tailwind/theming"}
Learn how theming works in Shuriken UI and get a grasp on the basic concepts.
#title
Theme Overview
:::
:::link-box{to ="/docs/tailwind/theming/colors"}
Learn how to setup your branding color, your gray shade and additional support colors.
#title
Theme Colors
:::
:::link-box{to ="/docs/tailwind/theming/dark-mode"}
Learn more about Shuriken UI's native dark mode and how components are built around it
#title
Dark Mode
:::
:::link-box{to ="/docs/tailwind/theming/visual-style"}
Learn more about Shuriken UI components key concepts and how to customize them.
#title
Visual Style
:::
:::link-box{to ="/docs/tailwind/theming/typography"}
Explore the typography system and how to customize it, including fonts, sizes etc...
#title
Typography
:::
:::link-box{to ="/docs/tailwind/theming/breakpoints"}
Learn how Shuriken Ui behaves in responsive viewports and how to customize it.
#title
Breakpoints
:::
::
