---
title: 'Typography'
description: 'Guidance for using and tuning typography.'
layout: 'default'
---

# Typography

Guidance for using and tuning typography.

## Typography clusters

Shuriken UI provides `nui-heading`, `nui-paragraph` and `nui-text` components to render titles and body copy. These components share size and weight props and map to an underlying type system to ensure consistent typography throughout your app.

::code-group

```html [example-clusters.html]
<h4 class="nui-heading nui-heading-lg nui-weight-semibold mb-4">
  Iam a text heading
</h4>
<p class="nui-paragraph nui-paragraph-md">
  Iam a text paragraph here to show you how to
  use the typography components. Each one has a
  configurable size, weight and line height.
</p>
```

#preview
:example-clusters
::

## Formatting

You can nest typography components to create rich text formatting.

::code-group

```html [example-bold.html]
<p class="nui-paragraph nui-paragraph-sm">
  This is a
  <span class="nui-text nui-weight-semibold">
    very important
  </span>
  message!
</p>
```

#preview
:example-bold
::

## Type scale

The typographic system is based on a 13 step scale, every step has a corresponding font-size, line-height and letter-spacing value which are all designed to be used in combination.

:example-type-scale

:example-type-scale-table

## Font weight

The following weights are supported. When using the typography components, you can use the `nui-weight-*` classes to set the font weight.

:example-type-weight

:example-type-weight-table

## Using fonts

Shuriken UI uses a system font stack for portability and legibility, as well as specificly loaded fonts. Here are the default font stacks before Shuriken UI starts adding custom fonts through its configuration:

:example-type-table

### Font system

Shuriken UI uses the native Tailwind CSS font system and extends it to make more typefaces available. Here is the default configuration of Shuriken UI fonts:

::code-group

```ts [tailwind.config.ts]
theme: {
  fontFamily: {
    sans: defaultTheme.fontFamily.sans,
    heading: defaultTheme.fontFamily.sans,
    alt: defaultTheme.fontFamily.sans,
    mono: defaultTheme.fontFamily.mono,
  },
}
```

::

We can see in the example above that Shuriken UI adds up to two additional font families to the Tailwind CSS font system. The `heading` font family is used for headings and the `alt` font family is used for alternative text.

### Setting your own fonts

You can set your own fonts by overriding the `theme.extend` object in your Tailwind CSS configuration file, using the `withShurikenUI` configuration object. Here is an example of how to set your own fonts:

::code-group

```ts [tailwind.config.ts]
import { withShurikenUI } from '@shuriken-ui/tailwind'

export default withShurikenUI({
  content: [],
  theme: {
    extend: {
      fontFamily: {
        sans: ['Inter', 'sans-serif'],
        heading: ['Inter', 'sans-serif'],
        alt: ['Roboto', 'sans-serif'],
      },
    },
  },
})
```

::

### Loading fonts

When working with a simple HTML frontend based application, you cna load your fonts using the google fonts CDN. Here is an example of how to load the Inter font:

::code-group{expandable}

```html [index.html]
<html>
  <head>
    <link rel="preconnect" href="https://fonts.googleapis.com">
    <link rel="preconnect" href="https://fonts.gstatic.com" crossorigin>
    <link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Inter:wght@300;400;500;600;700;800;900&display=swap" rel="stylesheet">
  </head>
</html>
```
::

::info-block{icon='simple-icons:tailwindcss'}
Setting your own fonts requires you to actually load the fonts in your application. Otherwise, you won't be able to see your fonts displayed. When working on your project, you can use the `google-fonts` website to get the embed code for the font you've selected.
#title
Important note
::