---
title: 'Configuration'
description: 'Customizing default properties for each component.'
layout: 'default'
---

# Configuration

Customizing default styles for each component.

## Component structure

Like we've said earlier, each component is defined in its own folder, and is composed of the following files:

* `index.ts`: the component CSS definition, using a combination of Tailwind CSS classes and custom CSS classes.
* `component.types.ts`: the component typescript definition, including the component props, events and slots.
* `component.variants.ts`: the component variants definition, including the component variants, and their respective CSS classes.
* `component.component.ts`: the component javascript definition written using [Lit-html](https://lit.dev/docs/libraries/standalone-templates/), including the component logic, and the component template.
* `component.config.ts`: the component configuration, including the component default styles, for each one of its parts and its variants.
* `component.stories.ts`: the component storybook definition, including the component stories, and its variants.
* `component.docs.mdx`: the component documentation, including the component description, examples, and more.
* `component.test.ts`: the component test file, including the component unit tests.

### How it works
`@shuriken-ui/tailwind` offers a way to customize the default styling of each component. One would first ask himself how this feature would be useful to him in a rela life project.

Let's assume for a second that you plan to start a customer project with Shuriken UI. You would probably want to customize the default styling of each component to match the customer's brand identity, or some specific guidelines that they put together. This is where the `config` file comes in handy. Depending on the component, you can change the colors, the borders, the fonts, the spacing and more.

### Overriding principles

Each component folder features an `index.ts` that is a CSS definition of the component. This file pulls the values assigned to custom CSS classes from the `component.config.ts` file. This means that if you want to make some changes to the styles, you don't have to touch the `index.ts` file, but rather the `component.config.ts` file.
Changing the values in the `component.config.ts` file will automatically update the styles in the `index.ts` file.

You can override the default styling by using your `tailwind.config.js` file, by populating the `shurikenUi` object:

::code-group{expandable}

```ts [tailwind.config.ts]
import { withShurikenUI } from '@shuriken-ui/tailwind'
import colors from 'tailwindcss/colors'

export default withShurikenUI({
  content: [],
  theme: {
    extend: {
      nui: {
        //Customize the tooltip plugin
        tooltip: {
          font: {
            family: 'sans',
            color: {
              light: '[#fff]',
              dark: '[#fff]',
            },
          },
          background: {
            light: '[#1e293b]',
            dark: '[#ec4899]',
          },
          size: {
            width: {
              min: '3rem',
              max: '21rem',
            },
          },
        }
      },
    },
  },
})
```

::

This way, you end up with customized components, without having to touch the component files or spending too much effort.